[Music]
hmm
hello and welcome to the latest ox
bowler livestream debate where today
we'll be answering the big question is
knowledge dangerous I am your host for
today dr. Tom Crawford
I teach maths here at the University if
you're into your YouTube you may
recognize me from Tom rocks my store
number file is the big one if you don't
know numberphile totally go to
numberphile but so as I said today we're
going to be talking about this big
question is not as dangerous we've got
some live demos that we're going to be
doing all together you'll need a
scientific calculator to do mine so make
sure you have those ready we'll have
something else which will touch on
quantum computing which is pretty
exciting and we'll also be looking at
the power of knowledge in creation myths
now some of you may have done some pre
livestream sort of activities or
workshops so if you have that's awesome
and hopefully that will enhance your
experience over the next 45 minutes if
you haven't absolutely don't worry you
do not have to have done the pre
recording work so you know we're all
will all be able to work through the
activities and demos together we will
have our usual competition so we want
you to send in your questions during the
broadcast so that can be either through
the chat window which you are hopefully
logged into or you can get in touch on
social media so we've got a Twitter or
Facebook and an Instagram all at let's
explore and we will pick our favorite
sort of most thought-provoking question
from those have been sent in and you
will be to win a we've got Amazon
vouchers and we've also got lots of
Explorer goodies for
class in fact and when you do send in a
question please do put your school or
your name on it so that I can read them
out and give you all the credit for what
will hopefully be some awesome questions
right I think it's about time we met our
panel for today so May first up would
you like to say hello hi well it's nice
to be here
I'm dr. Bain Monsieur my research areas
tend to look at race and ethnicity in
the ancient greco-roman world also the
Public Engagement Manager at the body in
libraries I work with schools and
communities and the general public to
try and increase access to our wonderful
collections and today's question it's
quite an intriguing one so for me I'll
be looking at it from a very sort of
religious and philosophical angle to
think about why is knowledge dangerous
and what has happened in creation myths
to make us think about the advances of
human civilization and what could be
dangerous about that that could affect
our environment including animals and
other people and plants also so anything
sort of historical to do with books
libraries that's all we're going to be
you know use use that fantastic
introduction to come up with some
awesome questions around this the big
question of is knowledge dangerous and
then we also have Shazia hello I'm a PhD
student at the Department materials at
University of Oxford and I work on
quantum computing but how do we
practically build a quantum computer as
opposed to like bits of code that we're
writing and my take on the question
would be like if we have this knowledge
and we have this power who uses that how
is it used isn't using good ways or bad
ways so yeah we interesting question
today awesome thank you very much and so
as you mentioned we're really putting
your questions to the panel to may and
Charles ear so please do send them in if
you've got one
you want me to ask to a particular
panelist that's also fine just put that
with your question now on to the demos
so I have yet to give my opinion on can
knowledge be dangerous and that's
because I'm going to hopefully
demonstrate my thoughts on that through
through my demo so this is the part
where you will need a scientific
calculator I'm also going to have
Charlie who's going to be working along
with us live and sort of I'm gonna try
to make it very clear so you know
exactly what buttons to press and we can
get to the answer of what we're going to
work out so the idea here is to try and
calculate the radius of an atomic bomb
and I chose this because first of all
it's a very interesting mathematical
question and being a mathematician I
obviously enjoy that but also because in
the link to whether knowledge is
dangerous my personal opinion is that
some knowledge is so for example using
knowledge about splitting atoms to build
a nuclear bomb then turns that knowledge
into something dangerous and that's why
I wanted to work through this example so
in the pre reading activities again
don't worry if you haven't read them but
I told the story of a British
mathematician called GI Taylor who
actually visited America during World
War two and he actually witnessed the
first sort of test of a nuclear bomb
explosion it was called the Trinity test
and having just witnessed this one test
he was then able to write down a formula
which actually described and told you
the the size of the bomb when an
explosion would happen based on just
three bits of information and the really
interesting bit about the story is he
did this calculation he did the maths
and then he was actually accused by the
US military of stealing their military
secrets
so they actually accused him of being a
spy and he sort of had to explain away
and show them his calculations to say he
hadn't stolen any of their data from all
of these tests he'd just done some
clever mats and the formula he came up
with is shown on this screen so we've
got two images as well of two of the
explosions
sorry two of the photographs from the
first test this Trinity test and we have
this formula at the bottom now this
tells you that the radius or the size of
your explosion is equal to the energy to
the power of 1/5 times time so the
amount of time after the explosion to
the power of 2/5 and then times the air
density to the power of minus 1/5 so
what this means is that to calculate the
radius you just need to know the energy
the time and the density and we can plug
in those numbers and work things out
about different explosions so the
example we're going to do using this
formula is shown here where we have an
image of the damage caused by the
hiroshima bomb that was dropped in World
War 2 in Japan by the US and what we've
got on this image are different circles
which show the extent of the damage and
now the furthest circle out is at a
distance of 11,000 feet which is 3000
350 meters so in our formula this is our
value for R this is the radius so this
is the size of our explosion now the
energy we know that because you can it's
now been Declassified by the US military
so we know the value of the energy and
the bomb and that is equal to 63
terajoules
which is a ridiculous amount of energy
it's 63 times 10 to the power 12 so the
first thing we need to calculate is to
plot that number in our calculator so we
need to do 63 times 10 to the power of
12 so for the power button most
calculators it's like a little X with a
little Y above it yeah so there we go
hopefully we can see on that so if we
plug that number in first so it's 3
times 10 to the 12 and then we want that
whole number to be to the power of 1/5
which is the power of Nohr point two as
a decimal so again if you press the
power button and you can hopefully then
put in the north point if ya nor point
two and we get an answer of 575 so the
first term in our formula
e to the 1/5 is 575 and we also know the
radius is 3350 now the air density this
p-value that is about 1 so we don't
actually need to do anything with that
because when you have 1 to any power you
just get the number 1 and you can test
this on your calculator it's quite a fun
experiment you'll always get one so we
don't need to do anything with that and
so now we just need to divide both sides
by this e to the 1/5 or this number of
so our final calculation is going to be
three thousand three hundred and fifty
divided by 575 which should give us
about six yes we've got five point eight
two well let's call it about six so now
we've got that time so T to the power of
two fifths equals six so what we have to
do is take both numbers to the power of
two point five to get the final answer
for the time so if you do six to the
power of two point five we should get
eighty one point nine seconds so what
this tells us is by inputting the
information that we have about this
explosion it says that when the bomb was
dropped it took around 82 seconds for
the blast wave to basically destroy the
entire city so it's an incredibly fast
explosion and it's quite sort of
depressing to think that you really had
no chance of trying to escape once that
explosion happen because the the sort of
the explosion would have covered the
entire city in only just over a minute
but we can get this information from
this mathematical formula which is sort
of the power of the max we didn't you
know we didn't need to be there we
didn't need to experience that
horrendous thing to actually be able to
get that information we can figure it
out afterwards so that's the kind of
thing you can do with maths in you know
using in this kind of context and as I
say my personal take on the question is
that certain types of knowledge are
indeed very day
if using the wrong ways such as with you
clear bombs so may I think it's your
turn for a demo that was really
interesting scary so when I started
thinking about this question the first
thing that really came into my mind is
how the advancement of knowledge human
knowledge in particular has been how it
has been transmitted and even now you
know books play a big part in our lives
in the past stories and even now still
stories play a big part in our lives
particularly creation myths so this is a
way of governing our society of how to
live how to have a moral code and to
think about punishment so so on I think
hopefully you've had some worksheets in
advance which will give you some ideas
about the creation myths and the heroes
of those creation myths and a little bit
about the punishment they suffered
because they've attained on knowledge
that wasn't meant to be for them so
let's think about Prometheus
particularly Prometheus and Pandora I'm
not sure if you've got Pandora's image
there but I'm sure she's quite a popular
figure in myth so with Prometheus and
Pandora these are part of a Greek
creation myths written by he sword who
was a poet 7th century poet who wrote
the Theogony and that means the story of
the gods now Prometheus he was a Titans
he wasn't part of the the gods crew you
know so you had earlier on in back in
the day you had the Titans and you had
the gods and they were constantly
fighting each other so Prometheus
belonged in the Titans
and his name means forethought so it's
something that you think about before
now he created the first human
civilization and he loved them so much
that he decided to bring fire from the
gods to mankind which bought it this
knowledge for human to become civilized
and to advance prometheus got punished
and he ended up being chained to robbed
and Raven a vulture eaten him constantly
every single day while his liver rather
than him so that he got punished for
eternity and now in some Greek tragedy
plays he is released by a super hero
called Heracles who releases him from
that pain so prometheus is seen as this
kind of figure of advancement of
knowledge and funny enough he was also a
kind of inspiration for Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein so the sub heading of Mary
Shelley's Frankenstein is Prometheus
than the modern Prometheus now
this is a kind of punishment for
particularly scientific knowledge now we
go to Pandora who is again part of that
creation myth she was the first woman to
be created Zeus the king of the gods
crated her specifically to try and fool
men now with Pandora it's about the
punishment of curiosity but also of
female advancement so there's a lot of
yeah smash the patriarchy there be the
punishment of female gaining power and
but also being curious with Pandora
because she opens up this box this jar
she's actually called all gifts or all
giving that's what her name actually
means is that she opens up this box and
then
all the evils come out in the world but
then hope is left so Pandora gets
punished and then we all get punished
now this might sound very very very
familiar to the story of Adam and Eve in
the garden of paradise and a lot of
Greek mythology and philosophy has
actually influenced lots of Hebrew and
Christian scriptures and and
storytelling so we have we now have a
connection with Pandora as this kind of
early type of Eve than with a another
myth which is also the garden of
Paradise which comes from a much earlier
story of the Sumerian legend the Epic of
Gilgamesh
now that garden of paradise includes a
serpent within it again
you know the serpent that exists within
the Adam and Eve story who also tend to
tempt humans to do wrong now the serpent
is also included another mythological
story and that takes us to the tree of
knowledge the tree of life in Norse
mythology
now again we do another big circle to
what it is when you two have access to
that knowledge on what happens
afterwards so so in the past and present
knowledge has been - of course - the
advancement of human civilization but
then it's also it's that what type of
knowledge you can access and if you
access the wrong kind of knowledge then
you are punished so so that being brings
us quite nicely to the modern era of
where we could misuse a certain type of
knowledge for our own downfall so that
could be in terms of social media
alternative facts the misuse and abuse
of information and information sharing
so it's not necessarily about what wine
it is is knowledge dangerous it's more
about what do you do with that knowledge
that has a massive consequence for human
action does that that's also
particularly enjoyed learning or we
remembering relearning all of the myths
from like picture Greece in a Norse
mythology very cool right thank you very
much me and now Shazia yes i going to
tell us about things we can't see yes I
guess my take on this question having
heard like what is knowledge how its
transferred is there are there physical
things we should be scared of and maybe
that's quite a topical now with
coronavirus being a huge threat to human
life
if so this animation on the screen here
is something that some group members and
like colleagues and collaborators are
working on where they're trying to trap
viruses and bacteria and nano scale
particles so really really tiny
particles between like two mirrors and
they're shining light on them and the
light changing on a cap when a particle
is trapped in there and then we can
obtain information about what size that
particle is what might be made up of and
how dangerous it could be so this device
would maybe be used in a medical office
to test like blood samples or biological
samples even like water sometimes to see
what's in it even though we can't see
these things they are still things that
are risk to us and we should be like
people to be afraid of them and also to
analyze what their data is as well what
my actual work is is using diamonds for
quantum computing and I guess many
people think of diamonds is just being
gemstones or engagement rings or very
nice jewelry and we now we have the
knowledge to know that diamond can be
used for so many different things from
drilling for oil used to sensors and for
quantum computing the part of the
diamond that I look at is a really tiny
imperfection in this like really perfect
structure called nitrogen vacancy Center
and this is used as a building block for
our quantum computer so at the moment
computers are all done we call Cass Cass
core computing where
you have bits that are 1 or 0 in a
quantum computer you kind of utilize
these quantum strangeness properties so
your bit could be 1 and 0 at the same
time so it's an entirely different basis
on how we're processing data storing
data and then how we use it so quantum
computing is supposed to like revolution
lies life in the same way computers did
which what's really really interesting
and I get to work on this and have these
discussions all the time for me it's
like who has that power again like who
has Prometheus's flame who has atomic
nuclear fusion I think if you suppose oh
sorry
again it's like quantum computing could
allow us to hack really secure systems
really quickly if the military have that
power who are they attacking while
attacking those people the fact that we
can basically solve problems really
really quickly it's great and it's gonna
revolutionize healthcare and how we saw
data how quickly we communicate with
each other but it's still something we
need to consider about how dangerous is
and who has that power say we conform to
our next section yeah I actually have a
point to add ok so you say yeah
Ozzie has mentioned there this thing
about hacking and so one of my favorite
things I've ever found in the world ever
is about a number which is illegal for
you to know because basically a computer
hacker took a computer code that was to
hack the copyright on DVDs stores those
old discs that we can't remember you
probably don't remember we used to watch
films and they took this computer code
and turned it into a single number which
was like 2,000 digits long and so
therefore by he could then distribute
this number and so now in the u.s. it's
illegal to know this particular number
so not only is knowledge dangerous it's
actually illegal to know this particular
number because it's hiding this hacking
thing that you have you kind of have to
know how to unravel it but still
apparently knowing this number is
completely illegal was that a prime
number it is a prime know yeah anyway I
just have to mention that when you
mentioned hacking and this this idea as
you say sort of could
use quantum computing to how it depends
on who has one and every ever secure
system is unsecure we're not there yet
there's so many like right now this is
what we should I'm thinking about this
is why we're having this discussion
right so know some very good points
right so we're gonna have a bit of a
hopefully quite a fun little activity
for you all to do so we're going to get
to your amazing questions in a minute
I've got about 20 on my screen that
we're going to try our best to get
through but before we do the questions
and sort of whilst we're discussing them
we want you to think about this odd one
out problem so we've created an odd one
out puzzle based on the big question of
knowledge being dangerous so there are
four images and we want you to think
about which one might be the odd one out
and also why and then at the end of this
live stream I will give you the answer
and sort of talk you through what's
happening and just sort of our panel are
going to help us we're just sort of
pointing out what's going on in each
picture just so we're all clear and what
the images show so made you want to kick
us off yeah of course
so on the first picture we have a chef
cutting a fish with a dangerous sign
with a danger symbol crust you know
bones and a cross failure this is
dangerous
and then we have some sort of doctors
doing some really complicated surgery
and then we've got a sort of somebody
why didn't a motorbike quite fast I'm
assuming because it wasn't be riding
ready to fight get going and then some
crazy dude that the last picture you
spotted this one yeah I say he was doing
I mean you would wouldn't you and your
but so four images one of them is an odd
one out and so we'll reveal the answer
after we've talked through some of your
questions so I guess let's dive straight
in so to kick off we're going to talk
about I think this is mainly aimed at
yourself maybe obviously we all chime in
should school students be protected
against knowledge that could be
potentially dangerous okay
so firstly let's just break that down a
little bit
it depends what who do use the knowledge
dangerous what kind of knowledge is
being transmitted and you know I think
what we try and do is instill some sort
of curiosity you know curiosity about
the world around us and how are we meant
to advance if we are not giving the
skills to learn about the world around
us so it depends what you're saying who
what kind of knowledge should be
accessible to kids I think for me kids
should be exposed to a number of things
that are going to question and be
curious about the environment around
them you know in the past this and even
now there's been two books that have
been deemed by certain countries and
societies dangerous because it's to say
sexually explicit or it could be that it
could you know to give some ideas for
for kids to act unruly and so forth but
then at the same time we need to make
sure that kids are prepared for the
world around them so if you are going to
take out certain information from a
school curriculum about say history
about literature then what kind of
adults are you are you making you know
when they grow up what are they
to be you know when pieces of
information I'm missing from their
education drug isn't all information
available to the many way like we have
the Internet everyone has a phone an
iPad a computer we can just Google we
can we can google anything right but
then who's what blocks are there and
what things students shouldn't know do
the parents decide to the school decide
I don't the partition to decide what we
teach our kids what we don't teach our
children but there are gatekeepers to
these to this knowledge right yeah so it
is going to be your parents your
teachers society governments you know
who are going to say what kind of
knowledge is accessible to you as a kid
right I think we're saying what do those
people who probably older than children
do they know what kids want to know like
they want to know about themselves like
you know sex education that's like a
massive thing in school and a massive
reform at the moment but what kids want
to know and what they should know at
that age what all generations think they
do need to know is probably very
different like all the kids what they
want
yeah I don't know like when you think
about films for example there are
guidance ratings on them yes and the
reason for that is that there is a
committee that decides actually some
content can be too dangerous for
children to be absorbed right yes so how
do I change is the cross country as well
about you beating the base some
countries deemed not to be let unsafe
for kids to what and have to be really
this is a great question as much as I
enjoyed the debate we should probably
move on to two different ones so we
could talk about other things but no
that was certainly interesting okay so
from tour meet school hello to meet
school is scientific knowledge more
dangerous than knowledge of the arts and
if so does that mean science is more
important
because failed avoid my question let's
go with the first part of the question
to start it so do we think scientific
knowledge has the potential to be more
dangerous than knowledge of the arts so
in this context I guess summative
knowledge is just like knowledge
everything is happening around us and
arts or should be like knowledge about
people and what we can create and
actually I think they're the same so I
think they're both equally dangerous in
the sense that like yes if it's as long
as you can like build a bomb or you can
build a con 2 computer but actually you
need to know who has that ability like
what backgrounds have they come from
what kind of like biases or
discrimination have they been through
that means they think a certain way I
think understanding our own lived
experience it's just as important
understanding the world around us also
all scientists are people and they all
are doing research through the filter of
themselves so science itself is
incredibly biased and I think more
scientists need to have more education
in the arts and we hear something ethics
of what we're doing or not more and I
think there's more and more scientists
doing that now and that's really
important and like science is not more
important than the odds at all read a
book do a painting okay
yes president okay so for me wow that's
a that's that's quite a question because
what you're doing is you're valuing
certain subjects above other subjects
now I'm going to come at it from a
classics point of view where if you cast
your mind back to ancient Greece you
know to have a rounded education means
learning about philosophy
meaning learning about the natural
environment learning about the arts
learning by the culture the literature
you know and maths you know so so you
needed to have a rounded education to go
off and do stuff like Alec
the great was taught by you know
philosophers and had a rounded education
so over time and this has to do with
governmental education policies we've
began you know quite wrongly to separate
the sciences
from the arts and the humanities now one
cannot exist without the other
philosophy was a for father or for
mother of science right of reason and
logic and exploration and so forth so
how could one exist without the other
I think we've just been programmed to
think that these two disciplines should
be separated and you are absolutely
right you know scientists are humans too
and people when you can't they're not
robots even even a vagrant even maths
yes maths is seen as this this very like
logical almost like cold subject where
you just follow the next step in your
calculation but to solve the really big
problems in maths and though these
famous mathematical proofs it's so
creative yeah and you don't just follow
it like a robot you have to think in all
of these different creative ways to be
able to have like Einstein and
relativity or Newton and gravity some of
the biggest discoveries in science and
so creation thinking well when we have
so I'm just talking about my own
experiences about the kind of people
come to us to learn about Latin for
example Latin language that is it draws
people from a number of disciplines
maths and science and they really like
that aspect of code-breaking aspect of
languages so yeah I think we've pretty
much in agreement also right um from
Beverly High School hello Beverly High
School what is the most dangerous event
that is the product of a human's
knowledge what's a dangerous event what
do you think is the most dangerous event
yes so I think I've probably thrown out
a contender with my my I shouldn't have
discussion about yeah
Russian bombs and sort of nuclear
weapons so they're having that knowledge
of how to split an atom to gain the
energy was then could have been used and
still is to be fair to some good for
creating nuclear energy and and whatnot
but then of course was also recognized
so there's lots of examples of
technology being weaponized which would
be sort of okay well my taste would
probably be misinformation the the most
dangerous event I can think of right now
is climate change and we've learnt about
climate change for a very long time
there's been a significant amount of
research going into it from you know the
70s and upwards but certain
organizations and certain companies have
we've held those research results
because it has not suited to the fossil
fuel argument now this is the 21st
century and pretty much most scientists
academics and a lot of people are pretty
much on the same thinking that climate
change has is just around the corner and
we need to do something about it there
is no plan B there is no plan
you know B earth right
but we're still constrained by
misinformation and so that's why I think
it's probably the most dangerous event
about to happen new links and has
happened so what you mention about
social media yeah and you're doing your
creation myth yeah sort of today and
this yeah misinformation news absolutely
Razia anything dad I know I kind of
really abstractly and talk about like
discrimination of different people yeah
like the fact that you were talking
earlier about all the different creation
myths and how women are constantly
portrayed as being like conniving or
evil or at bringing something awful and
now we see that every day
in like everyday sexism and gender
inequality like across the world and not
in the West but like everywhere it's a
different degrees but as he
like data or people have tried to prove
Jenny difference exists and even like
eugenics and difference between races
and how that is now like rising just
gonna plug Angela signings book superior
everyone needs to read it but that's all
like scientific information that is
being like manipulated to back up
people's discrimination and for whatever
reason you do someone's physical message
that is allowed to like perpetuate yes
because they've got this scientific
analysis or data behind it and it's
entirely like biased it's entirely
biased by like journalism and all these
other things but these are all inter
connecting yeah so it's all down to
people and environment and you know to
gender and race something like it's
something I'd say it's not the knowledge
itself it's how it's used
yeah and communicated in a lot of these
cases yeah okay good question yeah right
and this is from Rosana and Marvin's and
st. James Arizona do you think that in
the future knowledge will be so powerful
that we won't be thinking for ourselves
who would like to tackle that one
I don't know neo style maybe dystopian
fear our view is so powerful that we
won't be thinking like most like
immediately it was all happening now is
like machine learning sure yeah so
artificial intelligence the fact that we
can now like program computers to think
before us yeah but there's so many
issues again leaked what I was saying
before about my bias is discrimination
who programs those computers how we
program those computers most importantly
so yeah that probably is like something
we're afraid of like if the AI says to
solve the climate crisis it's to like
decimate half population yes like that's
something absolutely yeah I don't think
that's probably gonna I don't feel it's
gonna happen I like I have faith in all
they're gonna happen but it is like a
really dystopian like extreme example of
what might have
it does play a bigger role in our lives
so my favorite example of this is
deciding what you're going to watch on
Netflix oh my god a streaming platform
that may be available like you don't
pick anymore you go on and there is an
algorithm at a computer telling you this
is what we think you're like and that's
basically where you pick what you're
going to watch that's where you pick
what musics listen to on streaming
services again oh yeah absolutely
yeah it's showing you in people our
wonder to see anyway it was like a big
like filming phenomena I think in some
areas already not making our own
decisions but I mean the ideal situation
would be that we have those machines and
those robots doing the menial tasks and
so forth so that we have leisure time to
advance ourselves as a civilization
right but is that what actually I I
don't know I'm just probably playing a
favor
I like sleep less dystopian future this
is so tell us your school what would
happen if everyone knew everything so
that was quite fun I feel like everybody
boring like what we do that's very true
everyone knew everything and when we
just be like wow I've done everything
now it's content no you didn't know you
everything then you wouldn't like want
to go and no more oh I've got a nice
example from history okay so at the end
of I want to say 18th or 19th century
basically physicists thought that we'd
solved physics ok because they were like
we've got all this work from Newton we
can explain everything it's great except
for these two tiny little problems those
two tiny little problems became quantum
theory and relativity the two biggest
areas that you now study as a physicist
so like there was a time when in physics
at least we thought we knew everything
turns out just wasn't even true so I
don't think there would ever be a time
that we could know everything he's not
Jennifer yeah I guess I'm saying yes
yeah
so let's not forget that we are a very
very tiny tiny little planet mind you
you know the universe yeah incredibly
true both and so we don't even know if
we know everything yeah and we might
never know okay right I think that's
more or less brought us to the end of
the question discussion session so thank
you very much everyone for sending those
in I do keep sending them in because the
the competition will remain open until I
think tomorrow morning at 11:00 a.m. so
you can still send me your questions or
whilst unfortunately we can't answer
them right now we can at least you know
think about them and we will pick out
favorites or the most thought-provoking
between those prizes and so do keep
doing that obviously thank you very much
for taking part setting in your
questions thank you for you guys being
here thank you for more to do yet but
now maybe a second thank you in a minute
just say thanks to everyone got a chance
so yes and of course do check out the
Explorer website ox for dog to find out
more around this big question you can
vote as well and what you think the
answer should be and where the knowledge
is interest so I'm going to ask you guys
to give me your answer to the big
question is not as dangerous in just a
minute so you're gonna have some
thinking time and I'm gonna reveal the
odd one out answer so hopefully we can
bring back up the odd one out image so
we've got the four pictures we've got
the fish in the top left and we think a
chef we've then got some some doctors or
some surgeons performing surgery we've
got somebody taking a selfie with their
head in the mouth of a crocodile and
then we've got somebody riding a
motorbike now the correct answer is well
the correct odd one out is the person
with their head inside the mouth of the
crocodile and the reason for this is
that in no situation ever that will ever
exist is that a good idea
absolutely do not take a selfie with
your head inside the mouth of a
crocodile
even if it's dead I wouldn't say don't
do it because they've got sharp teeth
you could bang your head off but this
one is alive so there is actually no
reason to ever put your head inside the
mouth of a like rock tile whereas in the
other situations knowledge will help to
make that situation no longer as risky
or as dangerous so for example in the
top left corner we've got the fish so
this is actually the toxic fugu fish
which is a delicacy in Japan and if you
don't have the specialist knowledge and
training to know how to prepare this it
is insanely deadly so sort of having
that knowledge makes this a safer
situation then we've got surgery
so of course performing surgery if you
don't know what you're doing is just a
terrible idea and incredibly dangerous
but if you are a highly skilled surgeon
then you can make that a safe situation
and then finally also running a high
speed motorbike again with the right
training and the right practice that is
becomes a less dangerous situation with
that knowledge compared to not having
that driving ability whereas there is no
amount of knowledge that makes your head
in the path of a live crocodile a safer
situation so well done if you figure
that one out
yes with a round of applause and now in
a in a short and sweet as you can some
final words from the panel to some of
your thoughts on the big question so is
knowledge dangerous may know with what
supply well I think and okay let me go
back to my original thinking is that in
itself no it's the practice and
application it's the actions of the
people that can make it dangerous okay
I'm the exact same answer okay no noise
isn't dangerous that we're all here in
Oxford pursuing knowledge but I think
the consequence of that knowledge need
to be considered and also the people who
are pursuing that knowledge it needs to
be like inclusive and accessible to
everyone so everyone has a chance to
perceive that knowledge and understand
it and can add their own story to in
their inventory and I'm going to
disagree and say knowledge is danger
because unfortunately I'm a cynic and I
think that some of this this information
this knowledge will always find its way
to the wrong people who will use it in a
dangerous way so I think some knowledge
is dangerous okay just offer differently
so thank you very much again to the
panel thank you everybody for watching
check out Explorer and we'll be back
with another live stream event in a few
months
goodbye
[Music]